Question 18
What is the difference between encoding, encrypting and hashing? 

==== Encoding ====
Encoding is the process of taking some data and translating it for a useful
purpose.  Arrays in PHP, python, and even in C web applications can be encoded
to JSON (Javascript Object Notation) for easy and somewhat safe transmission.
Data can also be URL-encoded- which is how most GET requests are sent from
a browser.

Encoding is both a means of ensuring compatibility and compression.  Raw data,
video, and audio files take up a large amount of space.  Encoding these files
translates them into significantly smaller forms that are still acceptible for
use: MPEG Layer-3 Variable Bit Rate encoding creates small files while retaining
high quality, as do FLAC and AAC (which claim to be lossless).

Encoding, in terms of documents, also tell a document reader what character set
and language that document uses.  UTF-7 and UTF-16 save data differently from
Latin-1.  Also, compression is a form of encoding for text: ZIP, RAR, and BZ2 
are all common formats used to compress and encode data for transmission.

==== Encryption ====
Encryption is the process of encoding, compressing, or translating data to
secure its content.  There are many different methods to encrypt data for many
different purposes.  Data can be encrypted so that it can be communicated
securely over open channels, and it can also be encrypted for storage so that
only some people have access to it.  Unlike encoding, where data is converted
to become more useful, encryption converts data to be less useful.  
Specifically, only useful for the people intended to make use of it.


==== Hashing ====
A hash of some data is essentially a checksum, or interpretation of the data's
size and content.  Hashes are used for verification and lookup concerning data,
but don't contain any data themselves.  Passwords are often stored by recording
and comparing their hashes.  Hashes, such as checksums, can be used to verify
that data has been transmitted intact.  

Hashes are also used for looking up data.  Hash Tables and Hashes are common
programming data types, using a Key->value lookup, the hash being the key, in
the lookup table, and being a valid hash of the data it refers to.